https://www.youtube.com/shorts/bq0ou4a8GBA

Built a real-time collaborative code editor using React, Monaco Editor, Yjs (CRDT), and Socket.IO, enabling multiple users to edit the same code simultaneously with live sync — containerized with Docker and deployed on AWS EC2.

the change is stored in the ydocument and the editor is updated accordingly. This allows for real-time collaborative editing of code in the Monaco Editor using Yjs.

we run npm run build that creates html,css and js in a dist folder which we copy and paste it in in the public floder of backend now if you open the backend port then you can see the frontend output

by using 
app.use(express.static("public")) in the backend server.js file we can serve the frontend files from the public folder

The Problem: A program might work on a developer's laptop but break when sent to a server because the server has a different operating system version, missing libraries, or conflicting settings.

The Solution: Docker puts the program inside a digital shipping container. It locks in the code, the specific settings, and the tools required so it can be shipped and run anywhere without changing

Dockerfile
The recipe/blueprint — a text file with step-by-step instructions on how to construct your image (what base OS/Node version to start from, what files to copy, what commands to run, what command starts the app). Without this, Docker has no idea what your app needs.

docker build
Reads the Dockerfile and actually constructs the image based on those instructions — like a chef following the recipe and producing a finished, sealed meal (the image). This step happens once per code change; the output is a reusable image sitting on your machine (or wherever you built it).
bashdocker build -t backend .

docker run
Takes that built image and actually starts it running as a live container — like taking the sealed meal out of the locker and actually serving/eating it now. This is the step that starts your app process.
bashdocker run -p 4000:3000 backend


Why not just copy your local node_modules instead of reinstalling?
Because your local node_modules was built for your specific OS/architecture (Windows, in your case). Some npm packages have native binaries (like bcrypt, sharp, etc.) compiled specifically for the OS they were installed on


ECR (Elastic Container Registry)
A storage/hosting service for your Docker images on AWS — think of it like GitHub, but for Docker images instead of code.
You docker build an image locally (or on EC2)
You push that image to ECR
Later, ECS (or EC2) pulls that image from ECR to actually run it

ECS (Elastic Container Service)
AWS's service for actually running and managing your containers at scale. Instead of manually SSH-ing into an EC2 instance and typing docker run yourself, ECS handles:

Pulling your image from ECR
Starting/stopping containers
Restarting a container automatically if it crashes
Scaling up (running more containers) if traffic increases